so in my free time outside of Twitter I
experiment a little bit with telling
stories online experimenting with what
we can do with new digital tools and in
my job at Twitter I actually spend a
little bit of time working with authors
and storytellers as well helping to
expand out the bounds of what people are
experimenting with and I want to talk
through some examples today of things
that people have done that I think are
really fascinating using flexible
identity and anonymity on the web and
blurring the lines between fact and
fiction but I want to start go back to
the 1930s long before a little thing
called Twitter radio brought us
broadcasts and connected millions of
people to single points of broadcast and
from those single points emanated
stories some of them were familiar
stories some of them were news stories
and for a while they were familiar
formats but then radio began to evolve
its own unique formats specific to that
medium think about episodes that
happened live on Radio combining the
live play and the serialization of
written fiction you get this new format
and the reason why I bring up radio is
that I think radio is a great example of
how a new medium defines new formats
which then define news stories and of
course today we have an entirely new
medium to play with which is this online
world this is the map of verified users
on Twitter and the connections between
them there are thousands upon thousands
of them every single one of these points
is its own broadcaster we've gone to
this this world of many-to-many where
access to the tools is the only barrier
to broadcasting and I think that we
should start to see wildly new formats
emerge as people learn how to tell
stories in this new medium I actually
believe that we are in a wide-open
frontier for creative experimentation if
you
that we've explored and begun to settle
this wild land of the internet and are
now just getting ready to start to build
structures on it and those structures
are the new formats of storytelling that
the internet will allow us to create I
believe this starts with an evolution of
existing methods the short story for
example people are saying that the short
story is experiencing a renaissance of
sorts
thanks to e readers digital marketplaces
one writer Hugh Howey experimented with
short stories on Amazon by releasing one
very short story called wool and he
actually says that he didn't intend for
wool to become a series but that the
audience loved the first story so much
they demanded more and so he gave them
more he gave them wool to which was a
little bit longer than the first one
will three which was even longer
culminating in wool five which was a
sixty thousand word novel I think how he
was able to do all of this because he
had the quick feedback system of e-books
he was able to write and publish in
relatively short order
there was no mediator between him and
the audience it was just him directly
connected with his audience and building
on the feedback and enthusiasm that they
were giving him so this whole project
was an experiment it started with the
one short story and I think the
experimentation actually became a part
of how he's format and that's something
that this medium enabled it was
experimentation being a part of the
format itself this is a short story by
the author Jennifer Egan called black
box it was originally written
specifically with Twitter in mind Egan
convinced the New Yorker to start a New
Yorker fiction account from which they
could tweet all of these lines that she
created now Twitter of course has a 140
character limit Egan mocked that up just
writing manually in this storyboard
sketchbook used the physical space
constraints of those storyboard squares
to write each individual tweet and those
tweets ended up becoming over 600 of
them that were serialized by The New
Yorker every night
8:00 p.m. you could tune in to a short
story from the New Yorkers fiction
account I think that's pretty exciting
tune in literary fiction the experience
of Egan's story of course like anything
on Twitter there were there were
multiple ways to experience you could
scroll back through it but interestingly
if you were watching it live there was
this suspense that built because the
actual tweets you had no control over
when you would read them they were
coming at a pretty regular clip but as
the story was building normally as a
reader you control how fast you move
through a text but in this case the New
Yorker did and they were sending you bit
by bit by bit
you had the suspense of waiting for the
next line another great example of
fiction and the short story on Twitter
Eliot Holt is an author who wrote a
story called evidence began with this
tweet on November 28th at 10:13 p.m. a
woman identified as Miranda brown 44 of
Brooklyn fell to her death from the roof
of a Manhattan hotel begins in Elliott's
voice but then Elliott's voice recedes
and we hear the voices of Elsa Margo and
Simon characters that Elliot created on
Twitter specifically to tell this story
a story from multiple perspectives
leading up to this moment at 10:13 p.m.
when this woman falls to her death these
three characters brought an authentic
vision from multiple perspectives one
reviewer called Elliot story quote
Twitter fiction done right because she
did she captured that voice and she had
multiple characters and it happened in
real time
interestingly though it wasn't just
Twitter as a distribution mechanism
it was also Twitter as a production
mechanism Elliot told me later she wrote
the whole thing with her thumbs she laid
on the couch and just went back and
forth between different characters and
tweeting out each line line by line I
think that this kind of spontaneous
creation of what was coming out of the
characters voices really lent an
authenticity to the characters
themselves but also to this format that
she had created of multiple perspectives
in a single story on Twitter as you
begin to play with flexible identity
online it gets even more interesting as
you start to interact with the real
world things like invisible Obama or the
famous binders full of women that came
up during the 2012 election cycle or
even the fan fiction universe of West
Wing Twitter in which you have all of
these accounts for every single one of
the characters in the West Wing
including the bird that taps at Josh
Lyman's window in one single episode
all of these are rapid iterations on a
theme there are creative people
experimenting with the bounds of what is
possible in this medium you look at
something like West Wing Twitter in
which you have these fictional
characters that engage with the real
world they comment on politics they you
know cry out against the evils of
Congress keep in mind they're all
Democrats and they and they engage with
the real world they respond to it so
once you take flexible identity
anonymity engagement with the real world
and you move beyond simple omage or
parody and you put these tools to work
in telling a story that's when things
get really interesting so during the
Chicago mayoral election there was a
parody account it was mayor Emanuel it
gave you everything you wanted from rahm
emanuel particularly in the expletive
department this foul-mouthed account
followed the daily activities of the
race providing commentary as it when it
followed all of the natural tropes of a
good solid Twitter parody account but
then started to get weird and as it
progressed it moved from this commentary
to a multi-week real time science
fiction epic in which your protagonist
rahm emanuel engages in multi
dimensional travel on election day which
is uh didn't actually happen i
double-checked i double-checked the
newspapers and then very interestingly
it came to an end this is something that
doesn't usually happen with a Twitter
parody account it ended a
narrative conclusion and so the the
author Dan sinker who was a journalist
who was completely anonymous this whole
time I think you know Dan it made a lot
of sense for him to turn this into a
book because it was a narrative format
in the end and I think that turning it
up into a book is representative of this
idea that he had created something new
that needed to be translated into
previous formats one of my favorite
examples of something that's happening
on Twitter right now actually is the
very absurdist crimer show crimer show
tells the story of a super criminal and
a hapless detective that face off in
this exceptionally strange lingo with
all of the tropes of a television show
crimer shows creator has said that it is
a parody of a popular type of show in
the UK but man is it weird and there are
all these times where crimer the super
criminal does all these TV things he's
always taking off his sunglasses or
turning into the camera but it's these
things just happen in text
I think borrowing all of these tropes
from television and additionally you
know presenting each crimer show as an
episode spelled EP pas OD episode
presenting them as episodes really it
creates something new there is a new
episode of crime ER show on Twitter
pretty much every day and they're
archived that way and I think this is a
this is an interesting experiment in
format something totally new has been
created here out of parroting something
on television I think in nonfiction
real-time storytelling there are a lot
of really excellent examples as well
real-time World War two is an account
that documents what was happening on
this day 60 years ago in exceptional
detail as if you were reading the news
reports from that day and the author
tasia Cole has done a lot of
experimentation with putting a literary
twist on events of the news in this
particular case he's talking about drone
strikes I think that in both of these
examples you're beginning to see ways in
which people are
telling stories with nonfiction content
that can be built into new types of
fictional storytelling
so with real-time storytelling luring
the lines between fact and fiction the
real world and the digital world
flexible identity and anonymity these
are all tools that we have accessible to
us and I think that they're just the
building blocks they are the bits that
we use to create the structures the
frames that then become our settlements
on this wide open frontier for creative
experimentation thank you
[Applause]